---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Why Open Source?"
---
I decided to learn more about open source software development partially to experience working on a coding project with others. I’ve only worked alone in CS classes; I’ve never had to allot work fairly and adjust my code so it was understandable to others. Open source also seemed kind of utopian, and I honestly felt good about myself for wanting to selflessly give away my amazing code and contribute to projects for the benefit of the collective.

A clear advantage of open source projects is that they offer greater access and opportunities. In the past, I could only focus on reading through audiobooks, and I used a lot of LibriVox audiobooks for free available on the Internet Archive. Because they are free to anyone, open source projects draw from the varied experiences of its contributors. I was building a Discord bot for a class project, and with very little JavaScript experience, I learned how to use Discord.js, an open source JavaScript module for building bots, through YouTube tutorials from both a twelve-year old and a fully fledged software engineer. Open source projects are also personalizable for your needs. Twine, an open source project I’ve used to make choose-your-own-adventure stories, allows you to extend or subtract any part of its default settings without a paywall.
  
However, it can be argued that closed source projects might be higher quality, because companies are directly responsible for their work. Furthermore, closed source projects can vet collaborators, while open source projects can have malicious players or just good-intentioned people without experience. I use Wikipedia all the time to read a quick summary about topics, but sometimes I stumble on a less popular page, and it’s clear only one guy wrote the page in their own very distinct style. I could also argue that although open source projects offer greater initial access, maybe it’s more difficult to fully understand them since they can change more often than closed source projects.
  
I initially saw “open source” more like the idea of “free” software; it seemed more like a moral position than a profitable strategy. However, this was complicated when I learned that companies and even the open-source community encourage open source for business interests. I still have a lot of questions – do open source contributors see this as “working for free”? Do contributors feel responsible if their projects are used maliciously? I can understand why beginners would contribute to projects, but what motivates the experienced to contribute?

