---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Browser Extension Project Reflection"
---
Although it makes sense for a class on open source projects to be open source, I still don’t know how to navigate the public nature of this class. How do I share candidly while also aware that anyone can look at this post? I’ll still try to be as honest as possible: this project was very difficult for me. My teammates were all supportive and helpful regardless of my shortcomings, but I still self-imposed an unnecessary immense pressure that I think only discouraged project progress.

<!--more-->

Maybe because I never really had to work in a group to code before, especially with more experienced programmers, but this was my first time that I felt “bad” at coding. I never thought that I was brilliant, but I thought I was at least okay considering my lack of experience. It was hard to understand the reality that many people are better than me, and I had to catch up. I still tried to be as helpful as possible, asking what I could do when I felt like I wasn’t doing much, but after losing confidence, I felt that I would only slow our progress if my teammates had to explain some concept to me for a silly little two week project.

I tried to contribute by writing documents, since I think my writing skills are decent (for a CS major, which I’m not sure is a high standard). I think in retrospect I projected too much of my own lack of self-confidence onto this project, which was supposed to be fun. In the future I want to separate myself from what is ultimately just schoolwork and not think too hard about how a one school project reflects on me. While looking at other teams’ projects, it reminded me about how this didn’t have to be as mentally harrowing as I made it out to be. Some favorites include the YouTube Interface Customizer, which allows me to add Pikachu to the progress bar, and Word Replacer, which is a great idea that could lead to some funny results.


