---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: The Cathedral and the Bazaar"
---
I appreciated Raymond’s third lesson: “‘Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow’ (Fred Brooks, The Mythical Man-Month, Chapter 11).” I get easily frustrated if I have to ditch a project, which unfortunately occurs often because I’m not good at planning. I feel like it’s already a cliche to mention this, but it reminds me of the “sunk cost fallacy” and how quitting often is more beneficial than continuing a project with no future. For example, because I already spent so much time on something, I always feel like I have to continue to read/code/write even if I would be much more productive if I just took a break or restarted. I’m not sure if “throwing away” and “quitting” are the same thing, but it’s good to remember that I should expect to fail initially, and as long as I find a new solution, it doesn’t affect the quality of the end product. 

<!--more-->

I feel like I talk about the same topics when reflecting on group work; it seems like the same things happen every week, and it must be kind of boring reading for the n-th time that I feel worried about our progress, I like working in a group, I feel excited for what’s to come etc. However, that is still the state of affairs for me! We decided on some new issues that are a little harder, but it seems like my teammates have experience with what needs to be done, so I’m not too stressed. I’m also not sure if I should try reaching out to the maintainers again; although we weren’t completely ignored last time we reached out, it also didn’t seem like an open invitation to contribute to their project. 
