---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Christopher Snider's Presentaiton"
---
The Snider presentation was interesting to listen to. It was pretty cool to hear how open source, which often feels apolitical, can be informed by very real regulations and systems. How can we increase “access” to certain technologies considering the private healthcare industry and FDA regulations? For example, the FDA’s approval of Tidepool, submitted only a few months before March 2020, was delayed by the FDA’s shift of all resources to address the pandemic. 

<!--more-->

Despite a family history of diabetes, I also didn’t really know the work diabetics had to perform just to live everyday. Open source projects like Tidepool allow diabetics to monitor and manage their insulin with less financial strain and more transparency. Rather than rely on incompatible monitors and inaudible alarms, diabetics can choose and modify their treatment plans for their personal lifestyle. This reflects a greater importance for all healthcare to share open source's values of transparency and access.

Regarding our group project, we’ve been trying to work on an issue in p5.js's saveGif() function which saves animated drawings as a GIF. However, we haven’t been getting much response after reaching out, so we’ve decided to try another issue. p5.js is planning to add a new feature to their 3D drawing library, so they requested some community examples on how beginners can use this new feature. I’m pretty excited to learn more about the 3D drawing library and create some drawings!
