---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Open Source Projects So Far"
---
It’s been fun looking through different projects and realizing how these huge projects that I always thought were kind of untouchable are, in reality, pretty easy to understand. While looking at commits, most of the time I have no idea what they’re talking about, so it’s definitely not easy to understand the code, but it’s easy to understand how this piece of software is made up of files, how those files are organized, and how to make changes to those files. 

<!--more-->

I’m personally not super interested in contributing to a big project, since it seems like big projects either require pre-existing technical skills or a huge amount of time dedicated to quickly scooping up beginner tasks, and I don’t think I possess skills nor time. I’m also unfortunately always too motivated by personal interest, which eclipses any want to help others or make money. My experience with p5.js so far has been great, and it’s a project that I was already conveniently interested in beforehand. I probably felt too much pride in seeing my menial edit on the repository, but regardless it felt super rewarding to see my work actually help the community. It would be really exciting to work with them again.

Honestly I think my biggest challenge is my lack of experience in coding. While looking through beginner issues on projects, some of them already seemed beyond my current skill level. This could probably be remedied by giving myself more time while trying to figure out issues and by reaching out for advice. I’m naturally very careful and anxious in new environments, so another issue is reaching out for advice. I think this is where the anonymity of the Internet actually benefits me, and I can use it to unabashedly ask questions.

