---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Open Source Within Industry"
---
I think it always surprises me to hear how businesses have integrated “open source,” even though it seems obvious that a business looking to profit would want to use free resources. I guess I still think of FOSS as more of a moral philosophy similar to Richard Stallman’s original vision, so to hear FOSS isn’t some utopian philosophy untainted by business interests feels kind of strange. 

<!--more-->

I do think it is funny and a little silly how some businesses have profited off open source projects though. For example, I don’t really understand why businesses require a “middle-man” business to ensure that the project is well-funded. Why can’t they just directly donate and contribute to the project? Is it just so that they can blame and sue someone if the project ends up becoming disastrous?

Regardless, I can’t believe our group project work is almost finished. We’re still working on making an example for the new library, which was a harder task than we imagined. Luckily, the maintainer who created the library has been super helpful and even gave us suggestions on what to create. This might sound too idealistic, but I’m pretty proud that we’ve been able to help out a project that seems committed to doing the right thing. I wish we were able to contribute more, but considering our time frame and lack of experience with p5, I’m not upset at the progress we made. I was pretty surprised by how much p5 valued accessibility, to the point where if an issue wasn’t “expanding accessibility,” it would be ignored. I think this was a pretty interesting way to maintain a community that was unlike other projects we viewed in class.
