---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Codes of Conduct"
---
An outline of community values and behavior is important for any open-source project; open-source projects rely on collaboration, and how to collaborate should be clarified by the leaders of the project. For example, the Go project’s code of conduct outlines how to work with others in the Go community. It sets clear standards for behavior, resolving conflicts, and fostering diversity. This helps remove ambiguity on contributor conduct, ultimately creating a more welcoming environment for all contributors.

<!--more-->

The Go project’s code of conduct is based on the Contributor Covenant code of conduct with some revisions. The Go project and the Contributor Covenant both have sections that address enforcement and conflict, but the Go project emphasizes that conflict can be neutral and even productive for a project. Conflicts should be first addressed directly, and then reported if escalated. The Contributor Covenant only instructs contributors to report violations of conduct. Furthermore, the Go project also outlines greater community values, like charitability and constructive criticism. Maybe because Go is a well-known, global open-source community, misunderstandings inevitably happen, and contributing requires more understanding than other projects, so they emphasize assuming good intentions over quick escalation.

Eclipse (https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php)  is another project that adapted their code of conduct from the Contributor Covenant. Eclipse’s code of conduct is more similar to a terms of service and covers more legal ground ( ex “Nor is it intended to replace or supersede the protections offered to all our community members under the law.”) The Eclipse Foundation perhaps follows a more traditional corporate structure, where the Foundation has “employees, consultants, officers, and directors,” and emphasizes the use of Eclipse in business, so they require a more legal code of conduct than the Go project.

The Sugar Labs project is based on the Ubuntu code of conduct. Rather than structure each section based on general topics (ex “Our responsibilities, ”Scope” etc.) like the Go project, the Sugar Labs separates each section into values (ex “Be considerate,” “Be respectful” etc.). It also gives examples on how to contribute conductivity (ex “when we are in a feature freeze, please don't upload dramatically new versions of critical system software”), rather than just how to communicate with others. 

We can compare the Ubuntu code of conduct and the Contributor Covenant code of conduct to Wikimedia’s “Universal Code of Conduct” (https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Universal_Code_of_Conduct). The Universal code of conduct goes into depth on how to interact with others in the community. It lacks sections on reporting violations like in the Contributor Covenant or effective leadership like in the Ubuntu code of conduct. This perhaps reflects usual contributions to Wikipedia, which are more individualistic and lack huge collaborations that need leadership.
