---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Internet Archive and Open Source Contribution Reflections"
---
Mek’s talk was super interesting! I liked how he emphasized that the concept of the Open Library was nothing new; the Open Library is only natural as we continue to transition from analog to digital media. This brings up some interesting questions: how do you transpose a library into the digital world? What are the legal repercussions of sharing digital work? How do you lease a book digitally?

<!--more-->

I think most people are warned in school that everything you post on the internet is forever, so to hear that two thirds of the web is dead was surprising. I guess that the Internet Archive works like any other archive in saving what otherwise would be lost forever. I don’t know much about archiving, but I remember a professor emphasizing that it’s important to think about what histories are preserved in your archive. I wish I asked about how they decide what content is valuable for the Internet Archive. I think it’s also pretty interesting to think about how recent the conception of the Internet is, but it has accelerated history so quickly that we already require an archive for the past thirty years.

Regardless, on my contributions to open source projects, it’s been a little scary. I haven’t contributed anything extreme, but I still feel like I have a power that I shouldn’t have. My favorite contribution so far was to OpenStreetMap; when I walk around my neighborhood, most of the time I’m blanked out, so it was really fun to intentionally look closer at buildings I had never even registered in my mind. I also edited the Wikipedia page on Lean In that has become sort of a joke among my friends (especially this quote “In 2018, Michelle Obama said that leaning in does not always work”). I’ve never finished the book, so I didn’t want to touch it too much. I did add some context which gave me an excuse to read some interesting articles. I still haven’t done many coding contributions, but I hope that in the future I can find some without much effort.